README.md, before:

---
description: Overview about the purpose of these treasury knowledge resources
---

# About

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/treasuries-title.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>



These resources are being created to help provide useful research and analysis about treasury systems to create insightful and actionable information for learning about how Web 3 ecosystem treasuries can be operated and improved. These resources could be useful for anyone interested in learning about treasuries! The resources will focus on web 3 ecosystems specifically and cover treasury development opportunities however this same information can also be useful for anyone who is improving any existing treasury systems.

These resources are provided as a public good to help benefit any nation, organisation and emerging web 3 community. The goal for these resources is to help provide free and open access to insightful and actionable information about the current state and potential improvement opportunities for treasury systems.



**Current contributors**

{% content-ref url="http://127.0.0.1:5000/o/jOQu4b6VLDxaQsg2rVwG/s/zQLAwDu1M3Ts4d7syiK4/" %}
[Web 3 Association](http://127.0.0.1:5000/o/jOQu4b6VLDxaQsg2rVwG/s/zQLAwDu1M3Ts4d7syiK4/)
{% endcontent-ref %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-21: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

README.md, after:

---
description: Overview about the purpose of these treasury knowledge resources
---

# About

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/treasuries-title.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>



These resources aim to offer research and analysis about treasury systems that provide insightful and actionable information about how Web 3 ecosystem treasuries can be operated and improved. These resources should be useful for anyone interested in learning about treasuries!&#x20;

The resources will mostly focus on web 3 ecosystems and explore different treasury development opportunities. The same information should also be useful for anyone that is improving other existing treasury systems.

These resources are provided as a public good to help benefit any nation, organisation and emerging web 3 community. The goal is to offer free and open access resources that help with providing insightful and actionable information about the current state and potential improvement opportunities for treasury systems.



**Current contributors**

{% content-ref url="http://127.0.0.1:5000/o/jOQu4b6VLDxaQsg2rVwG/s/zQLAwDu1M3Ts4d7syiK4/" %}
[Web 3 Association](http://127.0.0.1:5000/o/jOQu4b6VLDxaQsg2rVwG/s/zQLAwDu1M3Ts4d7syiK4/)
{% endcontent-ref %}
